# 2021-04-09

### Overall Achievements
* Communication was established between CAD and the software side of the project
* The location for MAE in the STEAM Center has been determined
* Chris enabled GitHub discussions which would allow for another method of communicating requests for information between teams
### Open Issues
* Still need to assign new people to the open positions requested by each team
* A larger base will be required for MAE as it cannot be bolted to the floor.
* The concern of representing multi byte commands on a single block and the issue with memory because it is a von neumann architecture.
### Decisions
* A photographer for MAE has already filled out an application
* the logo for project MAE has been decided
### Team-Specific Notes
* As for service hours with the projects, it is not yet confirmed but by having proper commit messages and logging the time spent in meeting with one another to help with the project, the hours can be collected.
* A Hardware QA is required still but this role will become important when we get started with MAE's build phase
#### Hardware
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xEJ6OSFzL0U_8atCm3hPlDe97VEwOMfysKicr5zZGYg/edit
Shown above is a link to a document on which members in the Computer Science aspect of the project can ask concerns about choices made for MAE for Connor to answer them.
* A new repository for the hardware files has been added to GitHub  https://github.com/project-mae/hardware
* The memory is made up of 256 diffrent cells, each cell represents 1 byte. The cells are split into 2 diffrent towers, with 128 in each tower. Within each of the cells there are 8 different 16 segment displays. Each cell will also be labeled with its adress going from 00 to ff.
* The blocks with have 8 displays on them cappable of showing any of the characters we need. the display will be electronic
* Bluetooth was decided to be the most effective method of controlling the blocks as the blocks would already have arduino within them.
* As a clarifier, the memory stack will not move but the block will move to demonstrate the concept
* Furthermore, the memory stack will be referred to as the memory tower

* Here are some of the flags that the ALU will use (8086 flags)
S- After any operation if the MSB is 1, then it indicates that the number is negative. And this flag is set to 1
Z- If the total register is zero, then only the Z flag is set
AC- When some arithmetic operations generates carry after the lower half and sends it to upper half, the AC will be 1
P-This is even a parity flag. When result has even number of 1, it will be set to 1, otherwise 0 for odd number of 1s
CY- This is a carry bit. If some operations are generating carry after the operation this flag is set to 1
O- The overflow flag is set to 1 when the result of a signed operation is too large to fit.
* The ISA team also met up with Connor in order to discuss concerns
* The method of zeroing out memory persay would be represented via the leds -> cutting the power to the led would represent zero memory
#### R&R
* a cheatsheet for using Git has been made -> https://github.com/project-mae/documentation/pull/3
* hardware - for CAD designs and other engineering work - https://github.com/project-mae/hardware
* animations - for blender files of hardware animations - https://github.com/project-mae/animations
* the licensing information has been added to the above repositories by Mukul
#### ISA
* Here is a link to the preliminary ISA https://github.com/project-mae/assembly/blob/main/instructions.md.
* Concerns: There might be an issue to represent multi byte commands on a single block. Issue with memory's von neumann architecture.
#### Systems Integration
* The primary focus for this team would be to create some sort of trigger -> event diagram (UX team would be of help) that shows what needs to happen across software and hardware and to make sure the triggerse/events are either software -> hardware or hardware -> software because our primary role in the overarching team is to connect both well
* As the programs run, an idea was brought up for an explanation of the code to be included along with the feature of slowing down or pausing the program as needed
* The need for a equivalent progress speed for hardware and software was brought up for both teams to develop MAE in conjuction

#### UX
* a raspberry pi will be used with a Linux environment that can include swift and assembly code so that there is a certain amount of control over the interface
* It will be connected to a touch monitor
* Nidhi, Rohan, and Noah all signed up for their won Figma accounts
* https://github.com/project-mae/ui-design this is a link to the repository for the png files for Figma
#### UI
* The top bar can have all the main stuff and the side bar can take you to certain parts of the page the top bar is displaying
* There will be a virtual queue option for virtual users to input programs for MAE to run
* For live control, there could be a wait list and then once you are the first person in the queue you get control over the machine for X amount of time
* There could also be a mode where someone uploads their code, and it adds the code to a queue, and executes the code and sends the output as well as a video of the MAE executing it
* The logo with the singular M will be used for the website
* Hex Codes for the colors of the logo:
Red: #c03b2a
Orange: #ee8d34
Green: #689842
Blue: #1476b6
Darker Blue: #171b60
* We are going to have both top bar and side bar (top bar for general paths and sidebar for specifics)
* In the top bar there will be the Pages: Home, About, Gallery, Live Feed, Volunteer stuff (Which you already have) and a search bar if you want to search something up. We can always add more as needed
* The side bar can have the specifics about each team and what they did and how they work together with everyone else. (ex. Tabs for Webmaster, UX, SI, ISA, Secretary, etc...). Again we can always add more as needed
* the Home could be like the home and be information on the projectand the About page could be more information on what an Analytical Engine is, and other information about all parties involved
#### QA
* Noah decided to be the Software QA
#### Mechanical Assembly
* n/a at the moment
#### Webmaster
* continued to update the website and contact teams
* the basic design of teh website is complete
#### Secretary
